{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2758
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f1\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica-Bold;\f2\fnil\fcharset0 Menlo-Regular;
}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red218\green221\blue226;
}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;\cssrgb\c100000\c100000\c100000\c0;\cssrgb\c88235\c89412\c90980;
}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww29460\viewh15440\viewkind0
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs36 \cf0 \ul \ulc0 \
\ulnone The results for each assignment, would consist on a report referencing figures/plots you produced. \
The report, the figures and scripts would be uploaded to your GitHub. \
The comments and annotation on the code will be taken into account rather than the code itself. \ul \
\

\f1\b Assignment common to all:\ulnone \

\f0\b0 	Why transcriptomics is used as cornerstone to the different multiome technologies?\
	Does focusing on single cells within the context of multiomic data provide a complete picture of biological processes, \
	or are there important aspects that this approach might miss?\
	How might the future of multiomic single-cell technology contribute to our understanding of complex biological phenomena?\ul \
\

\f1\b Assignment 1:\ulnone   \

\f0\b0 	Load, filter and normalize the GEX data and compare them to the matrix of the Gene Activity matrix inferred from ATAC.\
	Comment on the most variable genes per cell type. Are there differences, why?\
	Data: Multiome\

\f1\b \ul Assignment 2:\ulnone  \

\f0\b0 	Annotate the cells using the differentially expressed genes in GEX, perform a similar analysis with the ATAC assay and compare the results.\
	Can we use the same marker genes? Are equally specific? Why?\
	Data: Multiome\

\f1\b \ul Assignment 3:\ulnone  \

\f0\b0 	Generate motifs for the top 5 differentially accessible peaks per cell type. From JASPAR, describe their function, and compare them between cell types.\
	Are the motifs, revealing the underlying biology of the different cell types?\
	Data: Multiome\

\f1\b \ul Assignment 4:\ulnone  \

\f0\b0 	Analyze jointly the GEX and ATAC experiments, and compare the results with the ATAC.\
	How is the clustering/annotation of the cell types?\
	Are the results comparable? What are the advantages and disadvantages of each approach?\
	Data: Mouse brain GEX + Mouse brain ATAC Vs Multiome\

\f1\b \ul Assignment 5:\

\f0\b0 \ulnone 	Instead of using the counts from Cellaranger-arc, use MACS2. Compare the obtained peaks.\
	Focus on the QC control and the quality, number and distribution of the peaks.\
	Is there any difference? Any clear advantage?\
	Data: Mouse brain ATAC and Multiome\
\
Here is a data base useful to get gene markers for the different cell types from the brain:\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f2 \cf2 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
https://www.cellsignal.com/pathways/neuronal-and-glial-cell-markers\cf4 \cb1 \
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0 \cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \
Food for thoughts:\
https://youtu.be/8Pm2xEViNIo?si=q2caFD0mQIiHbZf7&t=1100\
\
Any doubt, contact me on slack, my desk or at:\
guillermo.serranosanz@kaust.edu.sa}